as presidential candidates prepare to
straddle the fence and appeal to voters
across the spectrum next week's
presidential nominations will flag off
yet another likely bruising contest to
Shep Uganda's destiny though 56
candidates of pic nomination papers
political experts fear that the high
turnout could be symbolic of how justice
have taken the job of running the
country likely yogonda is a country
which to be read by people of substance
of format and form now the whole thing
looks as if it is ridiculous and a ready
to I think it shows you how seriously we
you can unstick our presidents or even
the presidency it's been reduced to a
joke because clearly 56 people you will
find that many of them are just having
fun there are more than 10 people we may
have to request the government to come
up again to give us the necessary
logistics because that is beyond our
control we had budgeted for 10 analysts
predict that most of them will fall by
the sideways as the rest enters its
critical phase in the eyes of the public
the rest is perhaps between four
candidates the incumbent president um 70
f this is dr. Kizza BCG dip is no but
small and you pcs flagbearer lara to
know but political pundits think 2011
will be yet another difference between
Museveni and despair in your nemesis
messaging their candidates who are
likable people who possibly many people
would wish had contested for the
presidency in better times if we had the
same political system where you contest
for the presidency in normal
circumstances a few others does not
arise the competition if it was supposed
to be gin in their career he should be
between the seven Andy Andy Andy vessel
that is the only competition which can
lead to my to our democracy so that we
know exactly who has one and the exactly
was lost with the levers of incumbency
on inside president Museveni will need
to upset the apple cart and reverse the
trend of
jindal in percentage to win the election
but messaging who has contested the
presidential results twice in the
Supreme Court will hope the incumbents
hello will continue to sleep and eclipse
his previous performance to reach 50
percent as no candidate expects a walk
in the park the period after nominations
will be marked by hate and canvassing
for votes in the countryside must have
any plans to begin his campaigns in lieu
arrow a place that strikes a historical
bearing but more importantly underlines
how fight X the threat of the insidious
will be ipcl ends in the sub-region with
most votes to fight for messenger with a
thud they got the presidency will use
the IPC suba cog to drive his message of
change across the country though he
comes into the race after UPC unda pic
with the IPC a move that belied the past
truck was in the opposition backyard
bandits field base urges to possesses
the most formidable challenge to the
status quo I'm saying fundamentally that
the coalition was a wastage of time and
I liked the way it collapsed because it
has now given investigate the chance to
concentrate on FDC and push the FDC into
the people Laura Turner and Mo are
likely to eat into what's that would
have gone to the IPC that is true and i
think that the IPC would have benefited
a great deal from those two people not
standing but given that they are
standing and given that their areas that
are traditionally UPC supporting areas
your pieces still has a fairly large
following in the country given that
their areas that are largely DP
following areas I think that they are
going to eat significantly into those
areas but still I think that there are
people who belong to those but is would
still want to vote for the candidate who
presents the most credible on poor
opponent to President Museveni
this week messager was blocked as he
attempted to file his papers at the ec
the police accused him of harboring a
sinister plan when he appeared to and
his nomination papers to the ec chairman
engineer bad reaching under a mani often
a chooses of being an appendage of
Mussolini's regime ostensibly to rig
elections the clash that ensued that the
EC gets on the same day ec officials
prayed for peaceful elections experts
fear sheds light on what could unfold in
2011 level playing field is it a try not
their politics in this country has been
in over invaded by too much political
corruption money man ism and the issues
relating to militarization and over
saturate translational over actions in
this country are they going to use that
you over squad some people think that
they will i'm not sure they will under
anyone who has followed elections in
this country would have noticed
something very interesting Election Day
itself is very peaceful and I think that
that is calculated to disarm election
observers now it's the period leading up
to the election that we have to watch
and I think that they're the movement as
usual he is going to try as much as
possible and restrict opposition parties
to the towns as the rest to step up on
the hallowed grounds of leadership kicks
off in earnest next week a political
expert predicts the eastern region and
buganda could imagine the most contested
three East is going the east is up for
grabs by both the IPC and the nrm the
north is going to be a very complex one
because they're people who voted for his
obesity in 2001 and 2006 and very large
numbers in the northern subregion I
think that a significant number of those
are going to stay with the IPC because
they are going to be voting for the
person most likely to defeat president
were seven because that's ultimately
that's what they want to see in the last
election must have a nice trip the
western region well Bessy to cloak on
and borough of northern uganda seven is
slightly edged best Genbu ganda and the
eastern region the period after
nominations will mark
a roller coaster campaign trail as
candidates comb the countryside for
votes however the climax will be
februari 12 when their luxury we use
their prerogative to elect a leader mm
Tazawa NTV
you